Reworked structure and added content (#93)
informatici/openhospital-doc: doc_admin/AdminManual.adoc

* Internal communication
* Statistics and printing

=== 1.2 Hardware requirements

Minimum hardware requirements for running Open Hospital:

* PC / Notebook with dual core CPU
* 2 Gb RAM (4 Gb recommended)
* 4 Gb free hard disk space

=== 1.3 Software requirements

Minimum Operating System version required:

* Windows 7 (Windows 10/11 recommended)
* Ubuntu 18.04 (Ubuntu 20.04 recommended)

32 bit (i686) and 64 bit (x86_64) architectures are supported.

[#download]
=== 1.5 Download

Open Hospital official releases can be downloaded at the following link:

**Download latest release from github**: https://github.com/informatici/openhospital/releases/latest

> More information can be found on the Open Hospital website: https://www.open-hospital.org/download

Reviewer: This is a bit redundant; especially as the "More information ....." takes one to button that takes one back to the github site.  How about something more like:

`Open Hospital officials release can be downloaded from github.  The latest release can is found at: https://github.com/informatici/openhospital/releases/latest.`

And just leave it at that.

Author: I agree that it's redundant. Let me think about it, since we might add some features / information on the download page of the website in the future.

Reviewer: BTW, pick a standard when referring to GitHub; I've seen it both as GitHub or github (at least no versions of Github yet)

Author: Done for GitHub :-)

Author: I simplified the paragraph, I think it is ok now (at least while I'm working on the download page of the OH website :-)

[#setup]
=== 1.6 Initial setup

Open Hospital does not require installation. It is sufficient to unzip the downloaded package in a folder of choice, e.g.

* on Linux:
----
/home/OH/OpenHospital-[VERSION]		# Linux

> C:\Users\OH\OpenHospital-[VERSION]	# Windows

Reviewer: This is confusing; providing the windows path under a bullet point that reads `on Linux`

Author: Fixed.

----

To uncompress the package:

* on Linux:
----
cd /home/OH
tar zxvf OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-linux_[ARCH]-[portable].tgz # portable version
unzip x OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-linux_multiarch.zip # multiarch client version
----
* on Windows:
----
unzip OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-windows_[ARCH]-[portable].zip # portable version
unzip OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-multiarch-client.zip à multiarch client version
----

After uncompressing the package, browse to the extracted directory (example given for version 1.11.1):

----
cd /home/OH/OpenHospital-v1.11.1	# Linux
cd C:\Users\OH\OpenHospital-v1.11.1	# Windows
----

> NOTE: You need read/write permission on the folder of choice

Reviewer: Add a final "period" to make it a complete sentence

Author: Fixed.

* Internal communication
* Statistics and printing

For a detailed description of these features please refer to the _Open Hospital User's Guide_.

=== 1.2 Hardware requirements

Minimum hardware requirements for running OH:

* PC / Notebook with dual core CPU
* 2 Gb RAM (4 Gb recommended)
* 4 Gb free hard disk space (8 Gb recommended)
* Network adapter (for client/server configuration)

These specifications are for the OH application only; database server specifications may vary accordingly to the different use cases.

=== 1.3 Software requirements

Minimum Operating System version required for running OH:

* Windows 7 (Windows 10/11 recommended)
* Ubuntu 18.04 (Ubuntu 20.04 recommended)

32 bit (i686) and 64 bit (x86_64) architectures are supported.

[#download]
=== 1.5 Download

Open Hospital official releases can be downloaded from GitHub: https://github.com/informatici/openhospital/releases/latest

More information can be found on the Open Hospital website: https://www.open-hospital.org/download

[#setup]
=== 1.6 Initial setup

> Open Hospital does not require installation. It is sufficient to unzip the downloaded package in a folder of choice, e.g.

Reviewer: I would change "folder of choice" to "folder of your choice".

> Open Hospital does not require installation. It is sufficient to unzip the downloaded package in a folder of choice, e.g.

Reviewer: I would also add a comma after "e.g."

Author: Semicolon is ok?  :-)

* on Linux:
----
/home/OH/OpenHospital-[VERSION]
----

* on Windows:
----
C:\Users\OH\OpenHospital-[VERSION]
----

To uncompress the package:

* on Linux:
----
cd /home/OH
tar zxvf OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-linux_[ARCH]-[portable].tgz # portable version
unzip x OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-linux_multiarch.zip # multiarch client version
----
* on Windows:
----
unzip OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-windows_[ARCH]-[portable].zip # portable version

> unzip OpenHospital-v[VERSION]-multiarch-client.zip à multiarch client version

Reviewer: shouldn't `à` be `#`?

Author: yep !

In the following chapters, all the information needed to install, configure, deploy, run and maintain an Open Hospital 
installation is presented, including procedures on how to enable and disable features as well as managing users and groups in a multi user environment.
More information can be found on the Open Hospital web site https://www.open-hospital.org.

NOTE: The information needed to use the OH software is not included in this manual; please refer to the _Open Hospital User’s Guide_.

== 2 Installation

=== 2.1 OH - CLIENT mode

Open Hospital is a client application that can be used on a single computer (PORTABLE mode) or in a client/server configuration (CLIENT mode). The server part utilizes a DBMSfootnote:[DataBase Management System] to archive, share, and present the information. The free and open-source MariaDBfootnote:[See https://www.mariadb.org] is the database server of choice.

The typical client/server, networked (LAN) configuration is shown in the following figure:

image:image3.png[image,width=642,height=243]

The Administrator/Installer tasks are hereby listed:

* <<download,Download>> the Open Hospital package for the Operating System of choice

> * <<setup,Setup>> the downloaded OH package by uncompressing the archive in a folder of choice

Reviewer: again these two lines I would add "your" before "choice";  probably just my crazy preferences

Author: Should I replace all occurences of these sentence ?

> NOTE: It is possibile to use the provided scripts to generate config files: on Linux execute *oh.sh -g*, on Windows launch *oh.bat* and choose the option *g*.

Reviewer: Spelling: `possibile` -> `possible`

Author: Thank you ! Corrected.

And then the main Menu:

image:image18.png[MainMenu.png,width=235,height=456]

It is possible to create a shortcut (link) to the executable script on the desktop, in the Programs Menu or wherever is useful by using the provided icon “oh.ico” that is found in the package.

image:image100.png[oh.ico,width=32,height=32]

=== 2.2 OH - PORTABLE mode

> Open Hospital can also be executed in a *PORTABLE* mode. A "portable" version is also distributed, in order to have all the needed software in one single package.

Reviewer: These two sentences need work.  First it says you can "execute" in PORTABLE mode and then the second sentence says a "portable" version is *also* distributed.   It almost sounds like there is a difference between upper case PORTABLE and lowercase portable. 😃

Author: Absolutely agree. Will rewrite that.

Author: Could you please re-review this ? Thank you !

Reviewer 2: is the new version ok? can I merge?

And then the main Menu:

image:image18.png[MainMenu.png,width=235,height=456]

It is possible to create a shortcut (link) to the executable script on the desktop, in the Programs Menu or wherever is useful by using the provided icon “oh.ico” that is found in the package.

image:image100.png[oh.ico,width=32,height=32]

NOTE: Remember to review your setup in the Open Hospital configuration files and startup scripts **oh.sh / oh.ps1**.

=== 2.2 OH - PORTABLE mode

> Open Hospital is a Java software program and it is portable by definition, since it does not require installation. The *PORTABLE* mode refers to the possibility of deploying and executing a single instance of the OH software in a self-contained package that includes Java, MariaDB/MySQL Server and all the data. Once deployed on a single computer, the package can be copied and run everywhere - even from an USB stick - carrying together all the saved data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open Hospital is a Java software program and it is portable by definition. The _Portable mode_ in this chapter, refers to the possibility of having a self-contained package that includes Java, MariaDB/MySQL Server and all the data, that therefore does not require the installation of those softwares on your own. Once extracted the package and setup on a single computer, the folder can be copied and run everywhere - even from an USB stick - carrying together all the saved data, and so the **portable** wording.
```

Author: Pls recheck now.

> "Portable" versions (where PORTABLE mode set by default) are available; see the <<download,Download>> section for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pre-configured "Portable" versions are available for Windows and Linux; see the <<download,Download>> section for more details.
```

Author: Pls recheck now.

=== 2.2 OH - PORTABLE mode

> Open Hospital is a Java software program and it is portable by definition. The *PORTABLE* mode described in this chapter refers to the possibility of using OH as a self contained package that includes Java, MariaDB/MySQL Server and all the data, without requiring any software installation. The package can be used on a single computer and used run everywhere just by copying a folder - even onto an USB stick - carrying together all the saved data.

Reviewer 2: fix the sentence  "... and used run everywhere just by copying a folder "

Author: Yes right :-) done !

. Click the *Start Import* button at the right bottom corner of the window.

==== 2.3.3 Backup of OH code and settings

Backup of the Open Hospital *code and settings* can be performed by saving the *"oh"* folder. Configuration files are placed under the *"oh/rsc"* folder.

> Backup of the client *data and configuration files*, especially for "PORTABLE" mode, can be performed by saving/copying the *"data"* folder (including all subfolders) placed under the main OH installation folder.

Reviewer: I would change "placed under the main" to "found under the main"

Author: Should I replace all occurences of these sentence ?

Author: Did that also

[#folders]
=== 2.4 Folders and directory structure

> Open Hospital has a folder tree hierarchy which is shown here, where *_<version>_* is replaced with the current Open Hospital version, *<operating_system> with windows or linux and *_<arch>_* with the OS architecture (32 or 64 bit):

Reviewer: Isn't there an asterisk missing after <operation_system>?   There is an odd number of them in this line.

Author: Yes, corrected !

* *data/dicom* – contains the dicom files
* *data/dump* – contains the database backups
* *sql* – contains the database creation scripts
* *sql/extra* – contains SQL scripts for custom / experimental / temporary features
* *tmp* – contains temporary files

These folders may be organized differently depending on the version of the software or the architecture of the operating system.

Depending on the chosen operating system and architecture, the needed external applications and libraries (like MySQL/MariaDB and Java JRE) will be present also:

** _zulu8.58.0.13-ca-fx-jdk8.0.312-<operating_system>_<arch>/ - Java Virtual Machine
** _mariadb-<version>-<arch>/ or _mysql-<version>-<arch>-<build>/_ - MySQL Server or MariaDB Server

<<<

[#configuration]
== 3 Configuration

> Configuration of the local Open Hospital instance (CLIENT and PORTABLE mode) is set in the configuration files called “properties files”. The following properties files are placed in the **oh/rsc** subfolder:

Reviewer: To me "placing" entails some action on my part; better to say "are found in ...."

Author: Right, correct. Again, should I replace all occurrences ?

Author: Did that :-)

** *database.properties* – Open Hospital database connection
** *dicom.properties* – DICOM viewer module options
** *examination.properties* – contains the settings for the ‘examination’ module
** *log4j.properties* – Logging system and paths
** *settings.properties* – Open Hospital options and settings
** *sms.properties* – SMS Manager module
** *txtPrinter.properties* – Text printing system
** *xmpp.properties* – Xmpp Server configuration

Furthermore, additional configurations files (not meant to be modified by the user) are:

* *resolutions.xml* –  stores locally the information about webcams
* *version.properties* – contains the current Open Hospital version

The properties files are related only to the local instance of Open Hospital; different instances may use specific OH configuration with custom properties files.
The properties files can be generated automatically from the packaged _.dist_ files by editing the configuration options available in the startup scripts **oh.sh / oh.ps1** and launching OH. The properties files can also be modified manually using a text editor.

NOTE: Any change to these files requires an application restart to apply the modified settings.

> NOTE: The properties files are automatically generated/overwritten at any Open Hospital startup, unless MANUAL_CONFIG option is set to "on" in the **oh.sh / oh.ps1** scripts.

Reviewer: Inconsistent highlighting of the line oh.sh / oh.ps1; sometime plain text and other times bolded.

Author: Yes, correct. I will have a deeper look at that.

Author: Done.

> 

Reviewer: Spelling: `choosen` -> `chosen`

Author: Thank you ! Corrected.

(see <<folders,Folders>>).

===== 3.1.23.2 SetupGSM utility

> To setup GSM communication it is possibile use the included SetupGSM utility and follow these instructions:

Reviewer: spelling: `possibile` -> `possible`

Reviewer: change `possible use` to `possible to use`

Author: Done, thank you !

Open Hospital can run in debug mode when it would be useful to understand what is happening behind the user graphical interface.
Currently, this option affects only the video module, which means that in place of the normal *New Patient* window
(see link:https://github.com/informatici/openhospital-doc/blob/develop/doc_user/UserManual.adoc#8-4-3-patient-photo-new-photo[8.4.3 Patient Photo] function in User’s Guide),
the program opens the new special window shown below:

image:image26.png[New Patient Extended_photo_debug.png,width=645,height=535]

From this window is possible to have more information about webcams connected to the system.

> It is possibile to apply different resolutions in order to find the best setting or get information about a problem.

Reviewer: spelling: `possibile` -> `possible`

Author: Done, thank you !

=== 3.3 dicom.properties

DICOM configuration is set in the _dicom.properties_ file.
Default DICOM configuration is available in the _dicom.properties.dist_ file:

[source,properties]
----
#dicom.manager.impl=org.isf.dicom.manager.FileSystemDicomManager        # filesystem storage
#dicom.manager.impl=org.isf.dicom.manager.SqlDicomManager               # database storage
#dicom.max.size=1024B, 2048B, 1M, 16M, 256M, 512M, 1024M, 1G            # image size examples
dicom.manager.impl=org.isf.dicom.manager.DICOM_STORAGE
dicom.storage.filesystem=OH_PATH_SUBSTITUTE/DICOM_DIR
dicom.max.size=DICOM_SIZE
----

Use the provided startup scripts in order to automatically generate the _dicom.properties_ file from the corresponding _.dist_ file, or set manually the following parameters:

* *DICOM_STORAGE*: This property accepts one of the following:
** SqlDicomManager: DICOM files are stored in the database
** FileSystemDicomManager: DICOM files are stored in the file system
* *OH_PATH_SUBSTITUTE/DICOM_DIR*: if the value of the first parameter is set to "FileSystemDicomManager",

> this property specifies the path where the DICOM files are stored. It is possible to specify a local folder (_data/dicom_storage_ is the default path under the OH installation folder) or to set a shared network folder, userful for LAN - client/server environment. Suggested configuration is to map the network/NFS folder under the _data/dicom_storage_ path with a symbolic link.

Reviewer: spelling: `userful` -> `useful`

Author: Done, thank you !

----

[start=7]
. If any error message occurs you can report an issue here:+
 https://openhospital.atlassian.net/.
. If the procedure is successful, replace the OH working copy on each client with the new one and connect it to the same DB
(see <<database-properties,database.properties>> and <<log4j-properties,log4j.properties>>).

> Remember to mantain the configuration files that have been changed, to preserve the custom settings.

Reviewer: spelling: `mantain` -> `maintain`

Author: Done, thank you !
